Suddenly Robin Hood smote his knee.	 	
	  
	 	
			
			
	 	
  	
		 
  	
   
	 	
	 	
 		
			
			
			
 	 
	  
  	
 	 
		 
 
"By Saint Dunstan," quoth he, "I had nigh forgot that quarter-day cometh
on apace, and yet no cloth of Lincoln green in all our store. It must be
looked to, and that in quick season.  Come, busk thee, Little John!
Stir those lazy bones of thine, for thou must get thee straightway to
our good gossip, the draper Hugh Longshanks of Ancaster.  Bid him send
us straightway twentyscore yards of fair cloth of Lincoln green; and
mayhap the journey may take some of the fat from off thy bones, that
thou hast gotten from lazy living at our dear Sheriff's."

"Nay," muttered Little John (for he had heard so much upon this score
that he was sore upon the point), "nay, truly, mayhap I have more flesh
upon my joints than I once had, yet, flesh or no flesh, I doubt not that
I could still hold my place and footing upon a narrow bridge against
e'er a yeoman in Sherwood, or Nottinghamshire, for the matter of that,
even though he had no more fat about his bones than thou hast, good
master."

At this reply a great shout of laughter went up, and all looked at Robin
Hood, for each man knew that Little John spake of a certain fight that
happened between their master and himself, through which they first
became acquainted.

"Nay," quoth Robin Hood, laughing louder than all.  "Heaven forbid that
I should doubt thee, for I care for no taste of thy staff myself, Little
John.  I must needs own that there are those of my band can handle a
seven-foot staff more deftly than I; yet no man in all Nottinghamshire
can draw gray goose shaft with my fingers. Nevertheless, a journey to
Ancaster may not be ill for thee; so go thou, as I bid, and thou hadst
best go this very evening, for since thou hast abided at the Sheriff's
many know thy face, and if thou goest in broad daylight, thou mayst get
thyself into a coil with some of his worship's men-at-arms. Bide thou
here till I bring thee money to pay our good Hugh.  I warrant he hath no
better customers in all Nottinghamshire than we." So saying, Robin left
them and entered the forest.

Not far from the trysting tree was a great rock in which a chamber had
been hewn, the entrance being barred by a massive oaken door two palms'-
breadth in thickness, studded about with spikes, and fastened with a
great padlock. This was the treasure house of the band, and thither
Robin Hood went and, unlocking the door, entered the chamber, from which
he brought forth a bag of gold which he gave to Little John, to pay Hugh
Longshanks withal, for the cloth of Lincoln green.

Then up got Little John, and, taking the bag of gold, which he thrust
into his bosom, he strapped a girdle about his loins, took a stout
pikestaff full seven feet long in his hand, and set forth upon his
journey.

So he strode whistling along the leafy forest path that led to Fosse
Way, turning neither to the right hand nor the left, until at last he
came to where the path branched, leading on the one hand onward to Fosse
Way, and on the other, as well Little John knew, to the merry Blue Boar
Inn.  Here Little John suddenly ceased whistling and stopped in the
middle of the path. First he looked up and then he looked down, and
then, tilting his cap over one eye, he slowly scratched the back part of
his head. For thus it was:  at the sight of these two roads, two voices
began to alarum within him, the one crying, "There lies the road to the
Blue Boar Inn, a can of brown October, and a merry night with sweet
companions such as thou mayst find there"; the other, "There lies the
way to Ancaster and the duty thou art sent upon." Now the first of these
two voices was far the louder, for Little John had grown passing fond of
good living through abiding at the Sheriff's house; so, presently,
looking up into the blue sky, across which bright clouds were sailing
like silver boats, and swallows skimming in circling flight, quoth he,
"I fear me it will rain this evening, so I'll e'en stop at the Blue Boar
till it passes by, for I know my good master would not have me wet to
the skin."  So, without more ado, off he strode down the path that lay
the way of his likings. Now there was no sign of any foul weather, but
when one wishes to do a thing, as Little John did, one finds no lack of
reasons for the doing.

Four merry wags were at the Blue Boar Inn; a butcher, a beggar, and two
barefoot friars.  Little John heard them singing from afar, as he walked
through the hush of the mellow twilight that was now falling over hill
and dale.  Right glad were they to welcome such a merry blade as Little
John.  Fresh cans of ale were brought, and with jest and song and merry
tales the hours slipped away on fleeting wings. None thought of time or
tide till the night was so far gone that Little John put by the thought
of setting forth upon his journey again that night, and so bided at the
Blue Boar Inn until the morrow.

Now it was an ill piece of luck for Little John that he left his duty
for his pleasure, and he paid a great score for it, as we are all apt to
do in the same case, as you shall see.

Up he rose at the dawn of the next day, and, taking his stout pikestaff
in his hand, he set forth upon his journey once more, as though he would
make up for lost time.

In the good town of Blyth there lived a stout tanner, celebrated far and
near for feats of strength and many tough bouts at wrestling and the
quarterstaff. For five years he had held the mid-country champion belt
for wrestling, till the great Adam o' Lincoln cast him in the ring and
broke one of his ribs; but at quarterstaff he had never yet met his
match in all the country about. Besides all this, he dearly loved the
longbow, and a sly jaunt in the forest when the moon was full and the
dun deer in season; so that the King's rangers kept a shrewd eye upon
him and his doings, for Arthur a Bland's house was apt to have aplenty
of meat in it that was more like venison than the law allowed.

Now Arthur had been to Nottingham Town the day before Little John set
forth on his errand, there to sell a halfscore of tanned cowhides. At
the dawn of the same day that Little John left the inn, he started from
Nottingham, homeward for Blyth.  His way led, all in the dewy morn, past
the verge of Sherwood Forest, where the birds were welcoming the lovely
day with a great and merry jubilee. Across the Tanner's shoulders was
slung his stout quarterstaff, ever near enough to him to be gripped
quickly, and on his head was a cap of doubled cowhide, so tough that it
could hardly be cloven even by a broadsword.

"Now," quoth Arthur a Bland to himself, when he had come to that part of
the road that cut through a corner of the forest, "no doubt at this time
of year the dun deer are coming from the forest depths nigher to the
open meadow lands. Mayhap I may chance to catch a sight of the dainty
brown darlings thus early in the morn."  For there was nothing he loved
better than to look upon a tripping herd of deer, even when he could not
tickle their ribs with a clothyard shaft. Accordingly, quitting the
path, he went peeping this way and that through the underbrush, spying
now here and now there, with all the wiles of a master of woodcraft, and
of one who had more than once donned a doublet of Lincoln green.

Now as Little John stepped blithely along, thinking of nothing but of
such things as the sweetness of the hawthorn buds that bedecked the
hedgerows, or gazing upward at the lark, that, springing from the dewy
grass, hung aloft on quivering wings in the yellow sunlight, pouring
forth its song that fell like a falling star from the sky, his luck led
him away from the highway, not far from the spot where Arthur a Bland
was peeping this way and that through the leaves of the thickets.
Hearing a rustling of the branches, Little John stopped and presently
caught sight of the brown cowhide cap of the Tanner moving among the
bushes.

"I do much wonder," quoth Little John to himself, "what yon knave is
after, that he should go thus peeping and peering about I verily believe
that yon scurvy varlet is no better than a thief, and cometh here after
our own and the good King's dun deer." For by much roving in the forest,
Little John had come to look upon all the deer in Sherwood as belonging
to Robin Hood and his band as much as to good King Harry.  "Nay," quoth
he again, after a time, "this matter must e'en be looked into."  So,
quitting the highroad, he also entered the thickets, and began spying
around after stout Arthur a Bland.

So for a long time they both of them went hunting about, Little John
after the Tanner, and the Tanner after the deer. At last Little John
trod upon a stick, which snapped under his foot, whereupon, hearing the
noise, the Tanner turned quickly and caught sight of the yeoman.  Seeing
that the Tanner had spied him out, Little John put a bold face upon the
matter.

"Hilloa," quoth he, "what art thou doing here, thou naughty fellow? Who
art thou that comest ranging Sherwood's paths? In very sooth thou hast
an evil cast of countenance, and I do think, truly, that thou art no
better than a thief, and comest after our good King's deer."

"Nay," quoth the Tanner boldly--for, though taken by surprise, he was
not a man to be frightened by big words--"thou liest in thy teeth. I am
no thief, but an honest craftsman.  As for my countenance, it is what it
is; and, for the matter of that, thine own is none too pretty, thou
saucy fellow."

"Ha!" quoth Little John in a great loud voice, "wouldst thou give me
backtalk?  Now I have a great part of a mind to crack thy pate for thee.
I would have thee know, fellow, that I am, as it were, one of the King's
foresters.  Leastwise," muttered he to himself, "I and my friends do
take good care of our good sovereign's deer."

"I care not who thou art," answered the bold Tanner, "and unless thou
hast many more of thy kind by thee, thou canst never make Arthur a Bland
cry 'A mercy.'"

"Is it so?" cried Little John in a rage.  "Now, by my faith, thou saucy
rogue, thy tongue hath led thee into a pit thou wilt have a sorry time
getting out of; for I will give thee such a drubbing as ne'er hast thou
had in all thy life before. Take thy staff in thy hand, fellow, for I
will not smite an unarmed man.

"Marry come up with a murrain!" cried the Tanner, for he, too, had
talked himself into a fume.  "Big words ne'er killed so much as a mouse.
Who art thou that talkest so freely of cracking the head of Arthur a
Bland?  If I do not tan thy hide this day as ne'er I tanned a calf's
hide in all my life before, split my staff into skewers for lamb's flesh
and call me no more brave man! Now look to thyself, fellow!"

"Stay!" said Little John.  "Let us first measure our cudgels. I do
reckon my staff longer than thine, and I would not take vantage of thee
by even so much as an inch."

"Nay, I pass not for length," answered the Tanner.  "My staff is long
enough to knock down a calf; so look to thyself, fellow, I say again."

So, without more ado, each gripped his staff in the middle, and, with
fell and angry looks, they came slowly together.

Now news had been brought to Robin Hood how that Little John, instead of
doing his bidding, had passed by duty for pleasure, and so had stopped
overnight with merry company at the Blue Boar Inn, instead of going
straight to Ancaster.  So, being vexed to his heart by this, he set
forth at dawn of day to seek Little John at the Blue Boar, or at least
to meet the yeoman on the way, and ease his heart of what he thought of
the matter. As thus he strode along in anger, putting together the words
he would use to chide Little John, he heard, of a sudden, loud and angry
voices, as of men in a rage, passing fell words back and forth from one
to the other. At this, Robin Hood stopped and listened.  "Surely," quoth
he to himself, "that is Little John's voice, and he is talking in anger
also. Methinks the other is strange to my ears.  Now Heaven forfend that
my good trusty Little John should have fallen into the hands of the
King's rangers. I must see to this matter, and that quickly."

Thus spoke Robin Hood to himself, all his anger passing away like a
breath from the windowpane, at the thought that perhaps his trusty
right-hand man was in some danger of his life. So cautiously he made his
way through the thickets whence the voices came, and, pushing aside the
leaves, peeped into the little open space where the two men, staff in
hand, were coming slowly together.

"Ha!" quoth Robin to himself, "here is merry sport afoot. Now I would
give three golden angels from my own pocket if yon stout fellow would
give Little John a right sound drubbing! It would please me to see him
well thumped for having failed in my bidding.  I fear me, though, there
is but poor chance of my seeing such a pleasant sight."  So saying, he
stretched himself at length upon the ground, that he might not only see
the sport the better, but that he might enjoy the merry sight at his
ease.

As you may have seen two dogs that think to fight, walking slowly round
and round each other, neither cur wishing to begin the combat, so those
two stout yeomen moved slowly around, each watching for a chance to take
the other unaware, and so get in the first blow. At last Little John
struck like a flash, and--"rap!"--the Tanner met the blow and turned it
aside, and then smote back at Little John, who also turned the blow; and
so this mighty battle began. Then up and down and back and forth they
trod, the blows falling so thick and fast that, at a distance, one would
have thought that half a score of men were fighting.  Thus they fought
for nigh a half an hour, until the ground was all plowed up with the
digging of their heels, and their breathing grew labored like the ox in
the furrow. But Little John suffered the most, for he had become unused
to such stiff labor, and his joints were not as supple as they had been
before he went to dwell with the Sheriff.

All this time Robin Hood lay beneath the bush, rejoicing at such a
comely bout of quarterstaff.  "By my faith!" quoth he to himself, "never
had I thought to see Little John so evenly matched in all my life.
Belike, though, he would have overcome yon fellow before this had he
been in his former trim."

At last Little John saw his chance, and, throwing all the strength he
felt going from him into one blow that might have felled an ox, he
struck at the Tanner with might and main. And now did the Tanner's
cowhide cap stand him in good stead, and but for it he might never have
held staff in hand again. As it was, the blow he caught beside the head
was so shrewd that it sent him staggering across the little glade, so
that, if Little John had had the strength to follow up his vantage, it
would have been ill for stout Arthur.  But he regained himself quickly
and, at arm's length, struck back a blow at Little John, and this time
the stroke reached its mark, and down went Little John at full length,
his cudgel flying from his hand as he fell. Then, raising his staff,
stout Arthur dealt him another blow upon the ribs.

"Hold!" roared Little John.  "Wouldst thou strike a man when he is
down?"

"Ay, marry would I," quoth the Tanner, giving him another thwack with
his staff.

"Stop!" roared Little John.  "Help!  Hold, I say!  I yield me! I yield
me, I say, good fellow!"

"Hast thou had enough?" asked the Tanner grimly, holding his staff
aloft.

"Ay, marry, and more than enough."

"And thou dost own that I am the better man of the two?"

"Yea, truly, and a murrain seize thee!" said Little John, the first
aloud and the last to his beard.

"Then thou mayst go thy ways; and thank thy patron saint that I am a
merciful man," said the Tanner.

"A plague o' such mercy as thine!" said Little John, sitting up and
feeling his ribs where the Tanner had cudgeled him.  "I make my vow, my
ribs feel as though every one of them were broken in twain. I tell thee,
good fellow, I did think there was never a man in all Nottinghamshire
could do to me what thou hast done this day."

"And so thought I, also," cried Robin Hood, bursting out of the thicket
and shouting with laughter till the tears ran down his cheeks. "O man,
man!" said he, as well as he could for his mirth, "'a didst go over
like a bottle knocked from a wall.  I did see the whole merry bout, and
never did I think to see thee yield thyself so, hand and foot, to any
man in all merry England.  I was seeking thee, to chide thee for leaving
my bidding undone; but thou hast been paid all I owed thee, full
measure, pressed down and overflowing, by this good fellow.  Marry, 'a
did reach out his arm full length while thou stood gaping at him, and,
with a pretty rap, tumbled thee over as never have I seen one tumbled
before." So spoke bold Robin, and all the time Little John sat upon the
ground, looking as though he had sour curds in his mouth. "What may be
thy name, good fellow?" said Robin, next, turning to the Tanner.

"Men do call me Arthur a Bland," spoke up the Tanner boldly, "and now
what may be thy name?"

"Ha, Arthur a Bland!" quoth Robin, "I have heard thy name before, good
fellow.  Thou didst break the crown of a friend of mine at the fair at
Ely last October.  The folk there call him Jock o' Nottingham; we call
him Will Scathelock.  This poor fellow whom thou hast so belabored is
counted the best hand at the quarterstaff in all merry England.  His
name is Little John, and mine Robin Hood."

"How!" cried the Tanner, "art thou indeed the great Robin Hood, and is
this the famous Little John?  Marry, had I known who thou art, I would
never have been so bold as to lift my hand against thee. Let me help
thee to thy feet, good Master Little John, and let me brush the dust
from off thy coat."

"Nay," quoth Little John testily, at the same time rising carefully, as
though his bones had been made of glass, "I can help myself, good
fellow, without thy aid; and let me tell thee, had it not been for that
vile cowskin cap of thine, it would have been ill for thee this day."

At this Robin laughed again, and, turning to the Tanner, he said, "Wilt
thou join my band, good Arthur?  For I make my vow thou art one of the
stoutest men that ever mine eyes beheld."

"Will I join thy band?" cried the Tanner joyfully. "Ay, marry, will I!
Hey for a merry life!" cried he, leaping aloft and snapping his fingers,
"and hey for the life I love! Away with tanbark and filthy vats and foul
cowhides! I will follow thee to the ends of the earth, good master, and
not a herd of dun deer in all the forest but shall know the sound of the
twang of my bowstring."

"As for thee, Little John," said Robin, turning to him and laughing,
"thou wilt start once more for Ancaster, and we will go part way with
thee, for I will not have thee turn again to either the right hand or
the left till thou hast fairly gotten away from Sherwood.  There are
other inns that thou knowest yet, hereabouts."  Thereupon, leaving the
thickets, they took once more to the highway and departed upon their
business.




Robin Hood and Will Scarlet

THUS THEY traveled along the sunny road, three stout fellows such as you
could hardly match anywhere else in all merry England.  Many stopped to
gaze after them as they strode along, so broad were their shoulders and
so sturdy their gait.

Quoth Robin Hood to Little John, "Why didst thou not go straight to
Ancaster, yesterday, as I told thee?  Thou hadst not gotten thyself into
such a coil hadst thou done as I ordered."

"I feared the rain that threatened," said Little John in a sullen tone,
for he was vexed at being so chaffed by Robin with what had happened to
him.

"The rain!" cried Robin, stopping of a sudden in the middle of the road,
and looking at Little John in wonder.  "Why, thou great oaf! not a drop
of rain has fallen these three days, neither has any threatened, nor
hath there been a sign of foul weather in earth or sky or water."

"Nevertheless," growled Little John, "the holy Saint Swithin holdeth the
waters of the heavens in his pewter pot, and he could have poured them
out, had he chosen, even from a clear sky; and wouldst thou have had me
wet to the skin?"

At this Robin Hood burst into a roar of laughter.  "O Little John!" said
he, "what butter wits hast thou in that head of thine! Who could hold
anger against such a one as thou art?"

So saying, they all stepped out once more, with the right foot foremost,
as the saying is.

After they had traveled some distance, the day being warm and the road
dusty, Robin Hood waxed thirsty; so, there being a fountain of water as
cold as ice, just behind the hedgerow, they crossed the stile and came
to where the water bubbled up from beneath a mossy stone.  Here,
kneeling and making cups of the palms of their hands, they drank their
fill, and then, the spot being cool and shady, they stretched their
limbs and rested them for a space.

In front of them, over beyond the hedge, the dusty road stretched away
across the plain; behind them the meadow lands and bright green fields
of tender young corn lay broadly in the sun, and overhead spread the
shade of the cool, rustling leaves of the beechen tree. Pleasantly to
their nostrils came the tender fragrance of the purple violets and wild
thyme that grew within the dewy moisture of the edge of the little
fountain, and pleasantly came the soft gurgle of the water. All was so
pleasant and so full of the gentle joy of the bright Maytime, that for a
long time no one of the three cared to speak, but each lay on his back,
gazing up through the trembling leaves of the trees to the bright sky
overhead.  At last, Robin, whose thoughts were not quite so busy wool-
gathering as those of the others, and who had been gazing around him now
and then, broke the silence.

"Heyday!" quoth he, "yon is a gaily feathered bird, I take my vow."

The others looked and saw a young man walking slowly down the highway.
Gay was he, indeed, as Robin had said, and a fine figure he cut, for his
doublet was of scarlet silk and his stockings also; a handsome sword
hung by his side, the embossed leathern scabbard being picked out with
fine threads of gold; his cap was of scarlet velvet, and a broad feather
hung down behind and back of one ear. His hair was long and yellow and
curled upon his shoulders, and in his hand he bore an early rose, which
he smelled at daintily now and then.

"By my life!" quoth Robin Hood, laughing, "saw ye e'er such a pretty,
mincing fellow?"

"Truly, his clothes have overmuch prettiness for my taste," quoth Arthur
a Bland, "but, ne'ertheless, his shoulders are broad and his loins are
narrow, and seest thou, good master, how that his arms hang from his
body? They dangle not down like spindles, but hang stiff and bend at the
elbow. I take my vow, there be no bread and milk limbs in those fine
clothes, but stiff joints and tough thews."

"Methinks thou art right, friend Arthur," said Little John.  "I do
verily think that yon is no such roseleaf and whipped-cream gallant as
he would have one take him to be."

"Pah!" quoth Robin Hood, "the sight of such a fellow doth put a nasty
taste into my mouth!  Look how he doth hold that fair flower betwixt his
thumb and finger, as he would say, 'Good rose, I like thee not so ill
but I can bear thy odor for a little while.' I take it ye are both
wrong, and verily believe that were a furious mouse to run across his
path, he would cry, 'La!' or 'Alack-a-day!' and fall straightway into a
swoon. I wonder who he may be."

"Some great baron's son, I doubt not," answered Little John, "with good
and true men's money lining his purse."

"Ay, marry, that is true, I make no doubt," quoth Robin.  "What a pity
that such men as he, that have no thought but to go abroad in gay
clothes, should have good fellows, whose shoes they are not fit to tie,
dancing at their bidding.  By Saint Dunstan, Saint Alfred, Saint
Withold, and all the good men in the Saxon calendar, it doth make me mad
to see such gay lordlings from over the sea go stepping on the necks of
good Saxons who owned this land before ever their great-grandsires
chewed rind of brawn! By the bright bow of Heaven, I will have their
ill-gotten gains from them, even though I hang for it as high as e'er a
forest tree in Sherwood!"

"Why, how now, master," quoth Little John, "what heat is this? Thou dost
set thy pot a-boiling, and mayhap no bacon to cook! Methinks yon
fellow's hair is overlight for Norman locks. He may be a good man and
true for aught thou knowest."

"Nay," said Robin, "my head against a leaden farthing, he is what I say.
So, lie ye both here, I say, till I show you how I drub this fellow." So
saying, Robin Hood stepped forth from the shade of the beech tree,
crossed the stile, and stood in the middle of the road, with his hands
on his hips, in the stranger's path.

Meantime the stranger, who had been walking so slowly that all this talk
was held before he came opposite the place where they were, neither
quickened his pace nor seemed to see that such a man as Robin Hood was
in the world. So Robin stood in the middle of the road, waiting while
the other walked slowly forward, smelling his rose, and looking this way
and that, and everywhere except at Robin.

"Hold!" cried Robin, when at last the other had come close to him.
"Hold!  Stand where thou art!"

"Wherefore should I hold, good fellow?" said the stranger in soft and
gentle voice.  "And wherefore should I stand where I am? Ne'ertheless,
as thou dost desire that I should stay, I will abide for a short time,
that I may hear what thou mayst have to say to me."

"Then," quoth Robin, "as thou dost so fairly do as I tell thee, and dost
give me such soft speech, I will also treat thee with all due courtesy.
I would have thee know, fair friend, that I am, as it were, a votary at
the shrine of Saint Wilfred who, thou mayst know, took, willy-nilly, all
their gold from the heathen, and melted it up into candlesticks.
Wherefore, upon such as come hereabouts, I levy a certain toll, which I
use for a better purpose, I hope, than to make candlesticks withal.
Therefore, sweet chuck, I would have thee deliver to me thy purse, that
I may look into it, and judge, to the best of my poor powers, whether
thou hast more wealth about thee than our law allows. For, as our good
Gaffer Swanthold sayeth, 'He who is fat from overliving must needs lose
blood.'"

All this time the youth had been sniffing at the rose that he held
betwixt his thumb and finger.  "Nay," said he with a gentle smile, when
Robin Hood had done, "I do love to hear thee talk, thou pretty fellow,
and if, haply, thou art not yet done, finish, I beseech thee. I have yet
some little time to stay."

"I have said all," quoth Robin, "and now, if thou wilt give me thy
purse, I will let thee go thy way without let or hindrance so soon as I
shall see what it may hold.  I will take none from thee if thou hast but
little."

"Alas!  It doth grieve me much," said the other, "that I cannot do as
thou dost wish.  I have nothing to give thee.  Let me go my way, I
prythee. I have done thee no harm."

"Nay, thou goest not," quoth Robin, "till thou hast shown me thy purse."

"Good friend," said the other gently, "I have business elsewhere. I have
given thee much time and have heard thee patiently. Prythee, let me
depart in peace."

"I have spoken to thee, friend," said Robin sternly, "and I now tell
thee again, that thou goest not one step forward till thou hast done as
I bid thee."  So saying, he raised his quarterstaff above his head in a
threatening way.

"Alas!" said the stranger sadly, "it doth grieve me that this thing must
be.  I fear much that I must slay thee, thou poor fellow!" So saying, he
drew his sword.

"Put by thy weapon," quoth Robin.  "I would take no vantage of thee. Thy
sword cannot stand against an oaken staff such as mine. I could snap it
like a barley straw.  Yonder is a good oaken thicket by the roadside;
take thee a cudgel thence and defend thyself fairly, if thou hast a
taste for a sound drubbing."

First the stranger measured Robin with his eye, and then he measured the
oaken staff.  "Thou art right, good fellow," said he presently, "truly,
my sword is no match for that cudgel of thine.  Bide thee awhile till I
get me a staff." So saying, he threw aside the rose that he had been
holding all this time, thrust his sword back into the scabbard, and,
with a more hasty step than he had yet used, stepped to the roadside
where grew the little clump of ground oaks Robin had spoken of. Choosing
among them, he presently found a sapling to his liking. He did not cut
it, but, rolling up his sleeves a little way, he laid hold of it, placed
his heel against the ground, and, with one mighty pull, plucked the
young tree up by the roots from out the very earth. Then he came back,
trimming away the roots and tender stems with his sword as quietly as if
he had done nought to speak of.

Little John and the Tanner had been watching all that passed, but when
they saw the stranger drag the sapling up from the earth, and heard the
rending and snapping of its roots, the Tanner pursed his lips together,
drawing his breath between them in a long inward whistle.

"By the breath of my body!" said Little John, as soon as he could gather
his wits from their wonder, "sawest thou that, Arthur? Marry, I think
our poor master will stand but an ill chance with yon fellow. By Our
Lady, he plucked up yon green tree as it were a barley straw."

Whatever Robin Hood thought, he stood his ground, and now he and the
stranger in scarlet stood face to face.

Well did Robin Hood hold his own that day as a mid-country yeoman. This
way and that they fought, and back and forth, Robin's skill against the
stranger's strength. The dust of the highway rose up around them like a
cloud, so that at times Little John and the Tanner could see nothing,
but only hear the rattle of the staves against one another. Thrice Robin
Hood struck the stranger; once upon the arm and twice upon the ribs, and
yet had he warded all the other's blows, only one of which, had it met
its mark, would have laid stout Robin lower in the dust than he had ever
gone before. At last the stranger struck Robin's cudgel so fairly in the
middle that he could hardly hold his staff in his hand; again he struck,
and Robin bent beneath the blow; a third time he struck, and now not
only fairly beat down Robin's guard, but gave him such a rap, also, that
down he tumbled into the dusty road.

"Hold!" cried Robin Hood, when he saw the stranger raising his staff
once more.  "I yield me!"

"Hold!" cried Little John, bursting from his cover, with the Tanner at
his heels.  "Hold! give over, I say!"

"Nay," answered the stranger quietly, "if there be two more of you, and
each as stout as this good fellow, I am like to have my hands full.
Nevertheless, come on, and I will strive my best to serve you all."

"Stop!" cried Robin Hood, "we will fight no more.  I take my vow, this
is an ill day for thee and me, Little John.  I do verily believe that my
wrist, and eke my arm, are palsied by the jar of the blow that this
stranger struck me."

Then Little John turned to Robin Hood.  "Why, how now, good master,"
said he.  "Alas!  Thou art in an ill plight. Marry, thy jerkin is all
befouled with the dust of the road. Let me help thee to arise."

"A plague on thy aid!" cried Robin angrily.  "I can get to my feet
without thy help, good fellow."

"Nay, but let me at least dust thy coat for thee.  I fear thy poor bones
are mightily sore," quoth Little John soberly, but with a sly twinkle in
his eyes.

"Give over, I say!" quoth Robin in a fume.  "My coat hath been dusted
enough already, without aid of thine."  Then, turning to the stranger,
he said, "What may be thy name, good fellow?"

"My name is Gamwell," answered the other.

"Ha!" cried Robin, "is it even so?  I have near kin of that name. Whence
camest thou, fair friend?"

"From Maxfield Town I come," answered the stranger. "There was I born
and bred, and thence I come to seek my mother's young brother, whom men
call Robin Hood.  So, if perchance thou mayst direct me--"

"Ha!  Will Gamwell!" cried Robin, placing both hands upon the other's
shoulders and holding him off at arm's length. "Surely, it can be none
other!  I might have known thee by that pretty maiden air of thine--that
dainty, finicking manner of gait. Dost thou not know me, lad?  Look upon
me well."

"Now, by the breath of my body!" cried the other, "I do believe from my
heart that thou art mine own Uncle Robin.  Nay, certain it is so!" And
each flung his arms around the other, kissing him upon the cheek.

Then once more Robin held his kinsman off at arm's length and scanned
him keenly from top to toe.  "Why, how now," quoth he, "what change is
here?  Verily, some eight or ten years ago I left thee a stripling lad,
with great joints and ill-hung limbs, and lo! here thou art, as tight a
fellow as e'er I set mine eyes upon. Dost thou not remember, lad, how I
showed thee the proper way to nip the goose feather betwixt thy fingers
and throw out thy bow arm steadily?  Thou gayest great promise of being
a keen archer. And dost thou not mind how I taught thee to fend and
parry with the cudgel?"

"Yea," said young Gamwell, "and I did so look up to thee, and thought
thee so above all other men that, I make my vow, had I known who thou
wert, I would never have dared to lift hand against thee this day. I
trust I did thee no great harm."

"No, no," quoth Robin hastily, and looking sideways at Little John,
"thou didst not harm me.  But say no more of that, I prythee. Yet I will
say, lad, that I hope I may never feel again such a blow as thou didst
give me.  By'r Lady, my arm doth tingle yet from fingernail to elbow.
Truly, I thought that I was palsied for life. I tell thee, coz, that
thou art the strongest man that ever I laid mine eyes upon.  I take my
vow, I felt my stomach quake when I beheld thee pluck up yon green tree
as thou didst. But tell me, how camest thou to leave Sir Edward and thy
mother?"

"Alas!" answered young Gamwell, "it is an ill story, uncle, that I have
to tell thee.  My father's steward, who came to us after old Giles
Crookleg died, was ever a saucy varlet, and I know not why my father
kept him, saving that he did oversee with great judgment. It used to
gall me to hear him speak up so boldly to my father, who, thou knowest,
was ever a patient man to those about him, and slow to anger and harsh
words.  Well, one day--and an ill day it was for that saucy fellow--he
sought to berate my father, I standing by. I could stand it no longer,
good uncle, so, stepping forth, I gave him a box o' the ear, and--
wouldst thou believe it?--the fellow straightway died o't. I think they
said I broke his neck, or something o' the like.  So off they packed me
to seek thee and escape the law. I was on my way when thou sawest me,
and here I am."

"Well, by the faith of my heart," quoth Robin Hood, "for anyone escaping
the law, thou wast taking it the most easily that ever I beheld in all
my life.  Whenever did anyone in all the world see one who had slain a
man, and was escaping because of it, tripping along the highway like a
dainty court damsel, sniffing at a rose the while?"

"Nay, uncle," answered Will Gamwell, "overhaste never churned good
butter, as the old saying hath it.  Moreover, I do verily believe that
this overstrength of my body hath taken the nimbleness out of my heels.
Why, thou didst but just now rap me thrice, and I thee never a once,
save by overbearing thee by my strength."

"Nay," quoth Robin, "let us say no more on that score. I am right glad
to see thee, Will, and thou wilt add great honor and credit to my band
of merry fellows.  But thou must change thy name, for warrants will be
out presently against thee; so, because of thy gay clothes, thou shalt
henceforth and for aye be called Will Scarlet."

"Will Scarlet," quoth Little John, stepping forward and reaching out his
great palm, which the other took, "Will Scarlet, the name fitteth thee
well. Right glad am I to welcome thee among us.  I am called Little
John; and this is a new member who has just joined us, a stout tanner
named Arthur a Bland.  Thou art like to achieve fame, Will, let me tell
thee, for there will be many a merry ballad sung about the country, and
many a merry story told in Sherwood of how Robin Hood taught Little John
and Arthur a Bland the proper way to use the quarterstaff; likewise, as
it were, how our good master bit off so large a piece of cake that he
choked on it."

"Nay, good Little John," quoth Robin gently, for he liked ill to have
such a jest told of him.  "Why should we speak of this little matter?
Prythee, let us keep this day's doings among ourselves."

"With all my heart," quoth Little John.  "But, good master, I thought
that thou didst love a merry story, because thou hast so often made a
jest about a certain increase of fatness on my joints, of flesh gathered
by my abiding with the Sheriff of--"

"Nay, good Little John," said Robin hastily, "I do bethink me I have
said full enough on that score."

"It is well," quoth Little John, "for in truth I myself have tired of it
somewhat.  But now I bethink me, thou didst also seem minded to make a
jest of the rain that threatened last night; so--"

"Nay, then," said Robin Hood testily, "I was mistaken. I remember me now
it did seem to threaten rain."

"Truly, I did think so myself," quoth Little John, "therefore, no doubt,
thou dost think it was wise of me to abide all night at the Blue Boar
Inn, instead of venturing forth in such stormy weather; dost thou not?"

"A plague of thee and thy doings!" cried Robin Hood.  "If thou wilt have
it so, thou wert right to abide wherever thou didst choose."

"Once more, it is well," quoth Little John.  "As for myself, I have been
blind this day.  I did not see thee drubbed; I did not see thee tumbled
heels over head in the dust; and if any man says that thou wert, I can
with a clear conscience rattle his lying tongue betwixt his teeth."

"Come," cried Robin, biting his nether lip, while the others could not
forbear laughing.  "We will go no farther today, but will return to
Sherwood, and thou shalt go to Ancaster another time, Little John."

So said Robin, for now that his bones were sore, he felt as though a
long journey would be an ill thing for him.  So, turning their backs,
they retraced their steps whence they came.




The Adventure with Midge the Miller's Son

WHEN THE four yeomen had traveled for a long time toward Sherwood again,
high noontide being past, they began to wax hungry. Quoth Robin Hood, "I
would that I had somewhat to eat. Methinks a good loaf of white bread,
with a piece of snow-white cheese, washed down with a draught of humming
ale, were a feast for a king."

"Since thou speakest of it," said Will Scarlet, "methinks it would not
be amiss myself.  There is that within me crieth out, 'Victuals, good
friend, victuals!'"

"I know a house near by," said Arthur a Bland, "and, had I but the
money, I would bring ye that ye speak of; to wit, a sweet loaf of bread,
a fair cheese, and a skin of brown ale."

"For the matter of that, thou knowest I have money by me, good master,"
quoth Little John.

"Why, so thou hast, Little John," said Robin.  "How much money will it
take, good Arthur, to buy us meat and drink?"

"I think that six broad pennies will buy food enow for a dozen men,"
said the Tanner.

"Then give him six pennies, Little John," quoth Robin, "for methinks
food for three men will about fit my need. Now get thee gone, Arthur,
with the money, and bring the food here, for there is a sweet shade in
that thicket yonder, beside the road, and there will we eat our meal."

So Little John gave Arthur the money, and the others stepped to the
thicket, there to await the return of the Tanner.

After a time he came back, bearing with him a great brown loaf of bread,
and a fair, round cheese, and a goatskin full of stout March beer, slung
over his shoulders.  Then Will Scarlet took his sword and divided the
loaf and the cheese into four fair portions, and each man helped
himself.  Then Robin Hood took a deep pull at the beer. "Aha!" said he,
drawing in his breath, "never have I tasted sweeter drink than this."

After this no man spake more, but each munched away at his bread and
cheese lustily, with ever and anon a pull at the beer.

At last Will Scarlet looked at a small piece of bread he still held in
his hand, and quoth he, "Methinks I will give this to the sparrows." So,
throwing it from him, he brushed the crumbs from his jerkin.

"I, too," quoth Robin, "have had enough, I think." As for Little John
and the Tanner, they had by this time eaten every crumb of their bread
and cheese.

"Now," quoth Robin, "I do feel myself another man, and would fain enjoy
something pleasant before going farther upon our journey. I do bethink
me, Will, that thou didst use to have a pretty voice, and one that tuned
sweetly upon a song.  Prythee, give us one ere we journey farther."

"Truly, I do not mind turning a tune," answered Will Scarlet, "but I
would not sing alone."

"Nay, others will follow.  Strike up, lad," quoth Robin.

"In that case, 'tis well," said Will Scarlet.  "I do call to mind a song
that a certain minstrel used to sing in my father's hall, upon occasion.
I know no name for it and so can give you none; but thus it is." Then,
clearing his throat, he sang:

 "_In the merry blossom time,
     When love longings food the breast,
 When the flower is on the lime,
     When the small fowl builds her nest,
 Sweetly sings the nightingale
     And the throstle cock so bold;
 Cuckoo in the dewy dale
 And the turtle in the word.
 But the robin I love dear,
 For he singeth through the year.
          Robin! Robin!
          Merry Robin!
 So I'd have my true love be:
          Not to fly
          At the nigh
 Sign of cold adversity_.
 "_When the spring brings sweet delights,
     When aloft the lark doth rise,
 Lovers woo o' mellow nights,
     And youths peep in maidens' eyes,
 That time blooms the eglantine,
     Daisies pied upon the hill,
 Cowslips fair and columbine,
     Dusky violets by the rill.
 But the ivy green cloth grow
 When the north wind bringeth snow.
          Ivy! Ivy!
          Stanch and true!
 Thus I'd have her love to be:
          Not to die
          At the nigh
 Breath of cold adversity_."

"'Tis well sung," quoth Robin, "but, cousin, I tell thee plain, I would
rather hear a stout fellow like thee sing some lusty ballad than a
finicking song of flowers and birds, and what not. Yet, thou didst sing
it fair, and 'tis none so bad a snatch of a song, for the matter of
that.  Now, Tanner, it is thy turn."

"I know not," quoth Arthur, smiling, with his head on one side, like a
budding lass that is asked to dance, "I know not that I can match our
sweet friend's song; moreover, I do verily think that I have caught a
cold and have a certain tickling and huskiness in the windpipe."

"Nay, sing up, friend," quoth Little John, who sat next to him, patting
him upon the shoulder.  "Thou hast a fair, round, mellow voice; let us
have a touch of it."

"Nay, an ye will ha' a poor thing," said Arthur, "I will do my best.
Have ye ever heard of the wooing of Sir Keith, the stout young Cornish
knight, in good King Arthur's time?"

"Methinks I have heard somewhat of it," said Robin; "but ne'ertheless
strike up thy ditty and let us hear it, for, as I do remember me, it is
a gallant song; so out with it, good fellow."

Thereupon, clearing his throat, the Tanner, without more ado, began to
sing:

THE WOOING OF SIR KEITH

 "_King Arthur sat in his royal hall,
     And about on either hand
 Was many a noble lordling tall,
     The greatest in the land.

 "Sat  Lancelot with raven locks,
     Gawaine with golden hair,
 Sir Tristram, Kay who kept the locks,
     And many another there.

 "And through the stained windows bright,
     From o'er the red-tiled eaves,
 The sunlight blazed with colored light
     On golden helms and greaves.

 "But suddenly a silence came
     About the Table Round,
 For up the hall there walked a dame
     Bent nigh unto the ground.

 "Her nose was hooked, her eyes were bleared,
     Her locks were lank and white;
 Upon her chin there grew a beard;
     She was a gruesome sight.

 "And so with crawling step she came
     And kneeled at Arthur's feet;
 Quoth Kay, 'She is the foulest dame
     That e'er my sight did greet.'

 "'O mighty King! of thee I crave
     A boon on bended knee';
 'Twas thus she spoke. 'What wouldst thou have.'
     Quoth Arthur, King, 'of me_?'

 "_Quoth she, 'I have a foul disease
     Doth gnaw my very heart,
 And but one thing can bring me ease
     Or cure my bitter smart.

 "'There is no rest, no ease for me
     North, east, or west, or south,
 Till Christian knight will willingly
     Thrice kiss me on the mouth.

 "'Nor wedded may this childe have been
     That giveth ease to me;
 Nor may he be constrained, I ween,
     But kiss me willingly.

 "'So is there here one Christian knight
     Of such a noble strain
 That he will give a tortured wight
     Sweet ease of mortal pain?'

 "'A wedded man,' quoth Arthur, King,
     'A wedded man I be
 Else would I deem it noble thing
     To kiss thee willingly.

 "'Now, Lancelot, in all men's sight
     Thou art the head and chief
 Of chivalry. Come, noble knight,
     And give her quick relief.'

 "But Lancelot he turned aside
     And looked upon the ground,
 For it did sting his haughty pride
     To hear them laugh around.

 "'Come thou, Sir Tristram,' quoth the King.
     Quoth he, 'It cannot be,
 For ne'er can I my stomach bring
     To do it willingly.'

 "'Wilt thou, Sir Kay, thou scornful wight?'
     Quoth Kay, 'Nay, by my troth!
 What noble dame would kiss a knight
     That kissed so foul a mouth_?'

 "'_Wilt thou, Gawaine?' 'I cannot, King.'
     'Sir Geraint?' 'Nay, not I;
 My kisses no relief could bring,
     For sooner would I die.'

 "Then up and spake the youngest man
     Of all about the board,
 'Now such relief as Christian can
     I'll give to her, my lord.'

 "It was Sir Keith, a youthful knight,
     Yet strong of limb and bold,
 With beard upon his chin as light
     As finest threads of gold.

 "Quoth Kay, 'He hath no mistress yet
     That he may call his own,
 But here is one that's quick to get,
     As she herself has shown.'

 "He kissed her once, he kissed her twice,
     He kissed her three times o'er,
 A wondrous change came in a trice,
     And she was foul no more.

 "Her cheeks grew red as any rose,
     Her brow as white as lawn,
 Her bosom like the winter snows,
     Her eyes like those of fawn.

 "Her breath grew sweet as summer breeze
     That blows the meadows o'er;
 Her voice grew soft as rustling trees,
     And cracked and harsh no more.

 "Her hair grew glittering, like the gold,
     Her hands as white as milk;
 Her filthy rags, so foul and old,
     Were changed to robes of silk.

 "In great amaze the knights did stare.
     Quoth Kay, 'I make my vow
 If it will please thee, lady fair,
     I'll gladly kiss thee now_.'

 "_But young Sir Keith kneeled on one knee
     And kissed her robes so fair.
 'O let me be thy slave,' said he,
     'For none to thee compare.'

 "She bent her down, she kissed his brow,
     She kissed his lips and eyes.
 Quoth she, 'Thou art my master now,
     My lord, my love, arise!

 "'And all the wealth that is mine own,
     My lands, I give to thee,
 For never knight hath lady shown
     Such noble courtesy.

 "'Bewitched was I, in bitter pain,
     But thou hast set me free,
 So now I am myself again,
     I give myself to thee_.'"

"Yea, truly," quoth Robin Hood, when the Tanner had made an end of
singing, "it is as I remember it, a fair ditty, and a ballad with a
pleasing tune of a song."

"It hath oftentimes seemed to me," said Will Scarlet, "that it hath a
certain motive in it, e'en such as this: That a duty which seemeth to us
sometimes ugly and harsh, when we do kiss it fairly upon the mouth, so
to speak, is no such foul thing after all."
	  	 		 	   		 			 	  				 						 			   	  	    	  	    	  		 				 						  	   		  		 	 	   	   	   		  		 				 		 						 	 	   	  		 	 		 						  	 				  				 	   	  		  		 	 		 						  		 			  		 	 	   	  		  		 	 	  	  			  	    	   					  		 	 	  		 				 						  				 		 						  			  	  				 	   					  				 	  			 		  	 		 	  	  			  	 		 	   	 			    		 		 						   	 			  	    		 						  		 	 	  	   		  			  	  	    	  		 			  		 	 		 						   		  	  		 	 	  			  	   		 		  		 	 	   	 				 						  	  	 	  		 	 	   		  	   		  	  				 	  		   	  		 	 	   		  		 						   	 			  	    		 						  	 				  		 	 	  	  			   						 						   	   	  	 		 	   	 			  	 					 						 		    	 	 					 			 	 	 	 		 		 					 	 	 	 			 		 		 	 		    	 		   			 						  	    	  	  			   			 	  	    	  				 		  		  	   					  				 	  	  	 	  		   	  		 			   		  	  				 	    		 	   	 	 		   				    				  	 	 		    		 		  		  		 	   			 						 	 	   	  		 	 		 						  				 	   		 		  		 	 		 						   		 		  		 	 	  				 	  		 			    		 		 						  		  		  	    	   		 			 						  	    	   	 	 	   		 			 						  		  		  	 		 	  	   		  				 	  	  				 						   	 			  				 	   		  	  	 	  	  	 		 	  	   		  		   		 	   			 						 	 	  		 	 		 			 	  				 						 				  	  	    	  		 			  		 	 	  			 		   		 		  		 	 	  				 	  	 	  	  		 	 	   		 			 							  		  		  	 				  	   		  		  		  						  						   		 
	  	 				   	  		 			  			  		 		 	 						  	 			 		 		 	   	   	  		   	 			 	 	  			 		 	  		 	   					 				 			  		 			  			 		 	    		  	 	 	   		  	 	 						  	   	 		  			 		  	 		  					   		 		 		   		  	 					 	    	  	  	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 			  					  	 		 	 		    	 	  	 		 					 	 		 				  	   		   	   	  	  	 	    	 		  	 		 	    	 		 	 			 	  	 	  	 			   	  	    	   					 		 		 		  	 			   		  	   	 	 	 	 	  		 	 					 	 					   						  	  		  	 	  	 		    	  		  		  	 		 	 	 			 	 					 	  			  	  	   		   	   	 			 			 				  	 			 	 	  	 	 		  		 	 	  	 				  	   		 		  			   					   		  				 	 	
		   				  	    	 		 				 					 	    		 	  		   	 				  	   	  			  		  	 				  	   	  		  	 	  	  	    	 				 		 	  	 		 		 	  	  	  			 		  			   		  	 		 	  	 	 		  	 	 	 	 	 		  			  		 			   		 		  		   	 	 	 			   	 	 	  	 		 	 		 		 	  		 	 	   	   	   					 	 		  	 		 	  	  	 	  		  	  			  		 		 	 			 	  		 			 	 	 			 	 		  	  	  	 	 			  		   	   	  	  	 	 		 	 		   					   						  		 			  	   	  	 	 		    				  	 				 	 	  		  	 		 	  	  			  			 		 			   	 	 			 	 		    	  		 	 	 		  	 	 		 				 		 				 		 				  	  			   		 			 	 	  	 	 		  	 		 				 		  				   		 		  	 	 	  	 		 	 	 								 	 	
	 	 			 	   	 	 		  		 		 	 	 	 	 		  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  				  	 	 		 		  	 		   				  	  			 	 	  		   	   	    		 	  		 			  	  	 	 			  		  	  	 	   	   		    	 				 	 	
